---
title: "RM vs FCB La Liga live streaming: When and where to watch Real Madrid vs Barcelona football match"
date: 2020-03-02T01:32:52+08:00
lang: en-US
draft: false
tags: [live,watch,clasico,liga,real,rm,madrid,streaming,fc,vs,el,barcelona,match,la]
categories: [english]
url: "/blog/rm-vs-fcb-la-liga-live-streaming--when-and-where-to-watch-real-madrid-vs-barcelona-football-match"
image: "cover.jpg"
---
Real Madrid vs Barcelona: Everything you need to know | Photo Credit: AP

Arch-rivals Real Madrid and FC Barcelona are set to battle for La Liga supremacy in the second El Clasico of the 2019-2020 season on Sunday night at the famous Santiago Bernabeu stadium. The second meeting between the two Spanish league stalwarts is expected to play a crucial role in deciding the ongoing La Liga season. Hosts Real are coming to the mouthwatering clash after a devastating trounce at the hands of English Premier League (EPL) holders Manchester City in the UEFA Champions League (UCL) Round of 16 phase.

The Los Blancos are only two points behind league leaders and defending champions Barcelona led by goal machine Lionel Messi. Madrid can bounce back after a series of dreadful results across all competitions as a win over bitter-rivals can help them regain the top spot on the top of the La Liga points table. For the hosts, star striker Karim Benzema has managed to find the back of the net nine times against Barcelona in his previous 39 Clasico appearances.

ALSO READ: El Clasico in 3 points: Messi-led Barca set to cash in on Real's downward spiral of results

Messi, who is also the leading goal scorer for the Catalan giants against Real will also become the player with the most number of appearances in Clasico history. Messi is set to surpass Xavi Hernandeds' record of 42 Clasico appearances by making his 43rd appearance against Real at the Bernabeu tonight.

Here's all you need to know about the Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match in La Liga:

When and what time will the Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match begin?

The Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match will begin at 01:30 AM IST (March 02).

Where will the Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match be held?

The Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match will be held at the Santiago Bernabeu.

Which channel will telecast the Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match on TV?

There will be no live telecast of the La Liga match in India on TV.

How to watch the live streaming of Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match?

The live streaming of Real Madrid vs FC Barcelona (El Clasico) match will be available on La Liga's official Facebook page.

